# **About me**

## **Personal Statement**
I am an expert in Molecular Biology, Genetics, Genomics, and
Computational Genomics. My journey started with specialized training
in Microbial Genetics, specifically Fungal Genetics, where I made a
groundbreaking discovery in Epigenetics - the mechanism known as
Meiotic Transvection/Silencing. This academic foundation merged
seamlessly with my passion for computers, making me a unique hybrid: a
Classical Geneticist and Molecular Biologist with deep expertise in
Computational Genomics and Data Sciences. My strength lies in crafting
algorithms that convert complex biological and genomics data into
digital formats, facilitating integration with Machine Learning and
Artificial Intelligence. I excel at deciphering complexity,
translating innovative ideas into practical, reproducible algorithms,
and scripting intricate tasks. I have extensive experience managing
and working with computers and Supercomputers, including
Next-Generation Sequencing data analysis, Genome Assembly, and
Transcriptome Assembly and Quantification. I've successfully
implemented sophisticated Bioinformatics tools and software, such as
Jira and Galaxy, across various computing platforms. My commitment to
education has given me substantial experience in simplifying complex
genomic concepts for those new to the field, honed over years of
teaching. My unwavering belief in teamwork is the foundation of my
professional ethos.  Throughout my career, I've championed
collaboration and nurtured growth-conducive environments. As a
Principal Investigator, I've developed my leadership skills by guiding
teams of undergraduate and graduate students, empowering them to turn
research concepts into well-designed experiments, functional code, and
rigorous testing. I firmly believe in the collective strength of a
team, crucial for the success of any venture. In summary, I am a
highly imaginative professional with an extensive interdisciplinary
background. My expertise spans Genetics, the art of molecular
manipulation of organismsâ€™ genomes. In addition, I am also proficient
in genome and transcriptome assembly, and transcriptome
quantification.  My role as a Principal Investigator has empowered me
with the capacity to adeptly oversee and mentor teams of budding
academics, aiding them in translating their research into actionable
code and comprehensive testing. Moreover, my immersion in the industry
as a consultant has sharpened my aptitude for discerning priorities.
