# **Research**

My research focuses on understanding how information is organized,
distributed, and compared in biological systems. Our work encompasses
two key levels of investigation:

1. **Exploring the digitization** of the information present in DNA, RNA, and proteins, and how this can be used at detecting reciprocal mutations and sequence differences between related genomes.
2. **Using *Neurospora crassa* as a model organism**, we areidentifying molecular players involved in sequence-based comparison between homologous chromosomes.

## **Computational Analysis:**
We are developing novel computational pipelines dedicated to detecting
sequence variations within related genomes. We are particularly
intrigued by the prospect of simplifying (i.e., digitizing) the
information present in DNA, RNA, and Proteins so as to simplify its
manipulation and analysis. We think that digitizing emerging genomic
data will not only enable us to use this data effectively but also to
integrate it into Artificial Intelligence, Data Clustering, and Image
Recognition Algorithms, in ways not done before. We posit that this
process of converting biological features into digital equivalents has
the potential to simplify genomic information, making it easier to
uncover previously unnoticed patterns through complex computational
comparisons. This approach has already yielded promising results by
revealing unexpected informational patterns across various organisms'
chromosomes. We believe that it will streamline and enhance our
ability to comprehend different cellular and organismal
states. Moreover, it holds significant promise in revolutionizing our
understanding of diseases, particularly Cancer and Metagenomics. This
informational perspective also contributes to our comprehension of
genome evolution, especially in the field of comparative genomics and
microbial metagenomics.

## **Molecular Genetics:**
We employ the filamentous fungus _Neurospora crassa_ as a model
organism to uncover and comprehend the intricate molecular components
responsible for sequence-based comparisons between homologous
chromosomes, leading to the initiation of Meiotic Silencing, a
phenomenon driven by RNA-mediated processes. Currently, our primary
focus centers on the exploration of whether genes recognized for their
significance in Meiotic Transvection/Silencing also contribute to the
occurrence of Repeat Induced Point Mutation (RIP) phenomena.

