# **Teaching**

## **Courses Developed**

### **Computational Genomics and Genomics**
Both, Computational Genomics (undergraduate level) and Genomics
(graduate level), are courses designed to prepare students for the
Genomics Revolution. They both provide a broad, basic understanding of
the different approaches used in the acquisition and study of genome
data. Students learn how to obtain, organize, manipulate, and process
biological data, using local-, super- and cloud-computers. For this,
we use web-interface-based computational tools like Galaxy and
CyVerse, to study genome data. Both courses aim at preparing students
to understand and to perform basic genome analysis, which will in turn
prepare them to follow and understand the most up-to-date work
performed in biology. Computational Genomics_ and Genomics make
extensive use of XSEDE and Jetstream cloud computational
resources. Genomics and Computational Genomics are both mature courses
that have been offered since the years 2000 and 2010, respectively.

### **Digital Biology**
Digital Biology (graduate level)is a command-line-driven introductory
course, designed to prepare students for the paradigm shift in our
understanding of biology that has been generated by the quick
development of the fields of Genomics and Computational Genomics. This
course aims at developing terminal-based skills to obtain, organize,
manipulate, and process biological data, with a focus on mapping and
assembly of transcriptome data. Students learn the fundamentals of
version control, scripting, text manipulation, and emerging
computational tools available on local computers, super computers, and
in the cloud. Learning the fundamentals of Version Control (GIT),
scripting (BASH), text manipulation (SED/AWK), as well as other
essential Genomics tools including, but not restricted to SAM, BED and
Picard, allows students to ask and answer important biologically
relevant questions. This helps them design, perform and analyze
experiments using Mapping and Assembling software available at Cyverse
and the TAMU Supercomputer Grace. Digital Biology makes extensive use
of XSEDE and Jetstream cloud computational resources. Digital Biology
is a mature course that has been offered since 2012.

### **Advanced Eukaryotic Genetics and Epigenetics**
Advanced graduate level course developed to provide a comprehensive
understanding of both genetics and epigenetics topics related to RNA
silencing. The course is based on the study of the use of genetic
approaches to understand basic biological processes and genetic
processes in both small (e.g., fungi) and large (e.g., mouse)
eukaryotic organisms. In addition, we study classical examples where a
non-mendelian genetic segregation is observed. In particular, we
explore the exploding literature in the RNA silencing field, paying
particular attention to the biology of the newly discovered non-coding
RNAs. Students are exposed to the most up-to-date molecular and
genetic literature in these fields. At the end of the course, students
are expected to have an advanced understanding of the genetic and
epigenetics of the most important eukaryotic model organisms and of
the most relevant epigenetic problems.

### **Information In Biology**
This undergraduate and graduate level course was an attempt to tackle
a heavily interdisciplinary subject. It focused on identifying and
understanding the laws that govern and the processes that control
information transfer in Biology. Our working hypothesis is that the
same laws that control information transfer in other systems (e.g.,
large corporations) are present in unicellular organisms like
Escherichia coli and vice-versa. Our dream is to translate these
concepts in the production of software or hardware with "evolvability"
properties.

## **Courses Taught As Professor**

### **Graduate Level**
| NAME                                         | NUMBER  | YEAR(s)     | CREDIT(S)  |
|----------------------------------------------|---------|-------------|------------|
| Advanced Eukaryotic Genetics and Epigenetics | BIOL689 | 2003 – 2005 | 04 Credits |

### **Undergraduate Level**
| NAME                           | NUMBER  | YEAR(s)     | CREDIT(S)  |
|--------------------------------|---------|-------------|------------|
| Cellular and Molecular Biology | BIOL213 | 2023        | 03 Credits |
| Fundamentals of Microbiology   | MICR351 | 2004 – 2005 | 04 Credits |
| Bacterial Genetics             | MICR406 | 1997 – 2000 | 03 Credits |

### **Courses Taught As Teaching Assistant**
| NAME                                   | NUMBER            | YEAR(s) | CREDIT(S)  |
|----------------------------------------|-------------------|---------|------------|
| Laboratory Course in Molecular Biology | Molecular Biology | 1985    | 02 Credits |

### **Undergraduate Level**
| NAME                       | NUMBER               | YEAR(s) | CREDIT(S)  |
|----------------------------|----------------------|---------|------------|
| Genetics                   | GENE301              | 1989    | 03 Credits |
| Advanced Molecular Biology | Molecular Biology II | 1984    | 03 Credits |
| Biology 101                | BIOL101              | 1978    | 03 Credits |
