# **Funding**
1.	Aramayo R, Thakar H. Type I – An Exploration on the Authenticity of the Ancient Triactyl Peruvian Mummies Using Radiocarbon Dating and Potential Genetic Characterization. Texas A&M University: Seed Grant Program for Promoting Research Collaborations (College of Liberal Arts, College of Science, and College of Geosciences); 2022.
2.	Aramayo R. Digital Biology - BIO210035. Texas A&M University: Advanced Cyberinfrastructure Coordination Ecosystem: Services & Support (ACCESS) - National Science Foundation (NSF); 2022.
3.	Aramayo R. Digital Biology – BIO210035. Texas A&M University: The Extreme Science and Engineering Discovery Environment (XSEDE) - National Science Foundation (NSF); 2021.
4.	Aramayo R, Smith L. Drug Use and Abuse: Defining How Cocaine Affects the Addition of Wild-Type and Fragile X Mental Retardation-1 Mutants Texas A&M University: Texas A&M University. College of Sciences (COS) FY19 - Strategic Transformative Research Program 2019.
5.	Posada JR, Aramayo R, Medina R. Characterizing The RNAs And DNAs Populations In Eggs As Tools To Assess Honey Bee Queen Fertility. Texas A&M University: T3 – Texas A&M Triads for Transformation; 2018.
6.	Polymenis M, Aramayo R, Kennedy B. Coupling of Protein Synthesis with Cell Division. Texas A&M University: R01 GM123139-01, National Institutes of Health; 2017.
7.	Aramayo R. Computational Detection of Novel Structural Variants in Cancer Genomes. Texas A&M University: dbGaP: 18340, National Institutes of Health – NCBI; 2017.
8.	Aramayo R. Molecular Structure of the Monoamine Oxidase A (MAOA) Gene In Patients Diagnosed with Antisocial Personality Disorder. Texas A&M University: dbGaP: 18414, National Institutes of Health - NCBI; 2017.
9.	Aramayo R. Computational Detection of Structural Variants Present in Standard Somatic Reference and Cancer Genomes. Texas A&M University: dbGap: 19769, National Institutes of Health - NCBI; 2017.
10.	Aramayo R, Arroyave R, Gutierrez-Osuna R. Development of “Big Data” Scientific Workflow Management Tools for the Materials Genome Initiative: Materials Galaxy. Texas A&M University: Interdisciplinary Seed Grants in Big Data program of the Texas A&M Engineering Experiment Station and the Dwight Look College of Engineering in partnership with Texas A&M University Division of Research; 2014.
11.	Aramayo R, Arroyave R. Materials Science Galaxy: A Web-based Materials Scientific Workflow Management System. Texas A&M University: Department of Materials Sciences. Texas A&M University; 2014.
12.	Aramayo R. Advancing Big Data in Science. Texas A&M University: Texas A&M University: 230082, VPR Seed Grant; 2014.
13.	Aramayo R. The Aggie Undergraduate Genomics Corps (AUGC): A catalytic concept for advancing undergraduate biological education at Texas A&M. Texas A&M University: Texas A&M University: 246049, Tier One Program (TOP) 2012.
14.	Aramayo R. Genetic and Molecular Study of Meiotic Trans-sensing and Meiotic Silencing. Texas A&M University: RGM058770, National Institutes of Health; 1999.
